FLIM NEWS --- history of major-changes.
Copyright (C) 1998,1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

* Changes in FLIM 1.12

** Restructure of field decoding features

Introduce backend mechanism of field-decoder and
field-presentation-method to restructure field decoding features.

Field-decoder is registered into variable `mime-field-decoder-alist'.
Each decoding function uses decoding method found from variable
`mime-field-decoder-alist'.

New function `mime-set-field-decoder' is added to register field
decoding method.

New function `mime-find-field-presentation-method' is added to get
`field-presentation-method' object corresponding with specified
field-presentation-mode.  Field-presentation-mode must be `plain',
`wide', `summary' or `nov'.

New function `mime-find-field-decoder' is added to find field decoding
method corresponding with field-name and field-presentation-mode.
   
New function `mime-decode-field-body' is added.  It is general field
decoder.


** Function `mime-decode-header-in-buffer'

Renamed from `eword-decode-header'.  `eword-decode-header' is defined
as obsolete alias.


** New function `mime-decode-header-in-region'


** Changes about lexical-analyzers

*** New user option `std11-lexical-analyzer'

Now function `std11-lexical-analyze' refers user option
`std11-lexical-analyzer'.


*** User option `eword-lexical-analyzers' -> `eword-lexical-analyzer'

User option `eword-lexical-analyzers' was renamed to
`eword-lexical-analyzer'.


*** Change interface of lexical-analyzers

Interface of function `eword-lexical-analyze' was changed from
`(string &optional must-unfold)' to `(string &optional start
must-unfold)'.  Interface of lexical analyzer specified by user option
`eword-lexical-analyzer' was changed likewise.

Function `eword-extract-address-components' was added new optional
argument `START' to specify start position of `STRING' to parse.

Function `std11-lexical-analyze' was added new optional arguments
`ANALYZER' to specify lexical-analyzer and `START' to specify start
position of `STRING' to analyze.

Interface of lexical analyzers for STD 11 was changed from `(string)'
to `(string &optional start)'.


** Function `std11-parse-in-reply-to' -> `std11-parse-msg-ids'

Rename function `std11-parse-in-reply-to' to `std11-parse-msg-ids'.
Function `std11-parse-in-reply-to' was defined as obsolete alias.


** New function `std11-parse-msg-id-string'


** New function `std11-parse-msg-ids-string'


** New function `mime-find-entity-from-content-id'


** New function `mime-parse-msg-id'


** New function `mime-uri-parse-cid'


** New generic function `mime-insert-entity'

Add new generic function `mime-insert-entity' to insert header and
body of ENTITY at point.

Each mm-backend must have new method `insert-entity'.


** New optional argument of `std11-field-end'

Now `std11-field-end' can accept new optional argument BOUND.  Thus
current interface is:

  std11-field-end (&optional BOUND)

If the optional argument BOUND is specified, it bounds the search; it
is a buffer position.


* Changes in FLIM 1.11

** New function `mime-insert-text-content'

Add new generic function `mime-insert-text-content' and new mm-service
`insert-text-content'.


** `insert-decoded-header' -> `insert-header'

mm-service `insert-decoded-header' was renamed to `insert-header'.
Similarly generic function `mime-insert-decoded-header' was renamed to
`mime-insert-header'.  However `mime-insert-decoded-header' was left
as an obsolete alias.


** Behavior change of `mime-insert-header'

Each field-name of second and third argument of function
`mime-insert-header' can include `:'.


** Abolish variable `mime-temp-directory'

Now FLIM uses `temporary-file-directory' instead of
`mime-temp-directory'.  So environment variable "MIME_TMP_DIR" and
"TM_TMP_DIR" are not effective to specify temporary directory of FLIM.


** Add new function `eword-decode-and-unfold-unstructured-field'


** Add new mm-backend `generic'

Add new mm-backend `generic'.  mm-backend `buffer' inherits the
mm-backend `generic'.


** Change internal representation of `mime-entity' structure

Internal representation of `mime-entity' structure was changed to add
NOV entries.


** `mime-entity-*-internal' and `mime-entity-set-*-internal'

Change `mime-entity-*-internal' and `mime-entity-set-*-internal' to
macro.


Local variables:
mode: outline
paragraph-separate: "[ 	]*$"
end:
